LayoutParser: A Uniﬁed Toolkit for Deep
      Learning Based Document Image Analysis


Zejiang Shen1 (   ), Ruochen Zhang2, Melissa Dell3, Benjamin Charles Germain
                         Lee4, Jacob Carlson3, and Weining Li5

                                   1 Allen Institute for AI
                                   shannons@allenai.org
                                      2 Brown University
                                  ruochen   zhang@brown.edu
                                     3 Harvard University
                    {melissadell,jacob       carlson}@fas.harvard.edu
                                 4 University of Washington
                                  bcgl@cs.washington.edu
                                   5 University of Waterloo
                                    w422li@uwaterloo.ca



        Abstract. Recentadvancesindocumentimageanalysis(DIA)havebeen
        primarily driven by the application of neural networks. Ideally, research
        outcomes could be easily deployed in production and extended for further
        investigation. However, various factors like loosely organized codebases
        and sophisticated model conﬁgurations complicate the easy reuse of im-
        portant innovations by a wide audience. Though there have been on-going
        eﬀorts to improve reusability and simplify deep learning (DL) model
        development in disciplines like natural language processing and computer
        vision, none of them are optimized for challenges in the domain of DIA.
        This represents a major gap in the existing toolkit, as DIA is central to
        academic research across a wide range of disciplines in the social sciences
        and humanities. This paper introduces LayoutParser, an open-source
        library for streamlining the usage of DL in DIA research and applica-
        tions. The core LayoutParser library comes with a set of simple and
        intuitive interfaces for applying and customizing DL models for layout de-
        tection,character recognition,and many otherdocument processingtasks.
        To promote extensibility, LayoutParser also incorporates a community
        platform for sharing both pre-trained models and full document digiti-
        zation pipelines. We demonstrate that LayoutParser is helpful for both
        lightweight and large-scale digitization pipelines in real-word use cases.
        The library is publicly available at https://layout-parser.github.io.

        Keywords: DocumentImageAnalysis ·DeepLearning ·LayoutAnalysis
       · Character Recognition  · Open Source library  · Toolkit.

1   Introduction

Deep Learning(DL)-based approaches are the state-of-the-art for a wide range of
documentimageanalysis(DIA)tasksincludingdocumentimageclassiﬁcation[11,
